
Talk about Abstract

Abstract classes and abstract methods are key concepts in Java's object-oriented programming,
providing a way to define classes and methods that are meant to be extended and implemented by subclasses.


1. Abstract Class:
An abstract class is a class that cannot be instantiated on its own. It is meant to be subclassed,
and it can contain both abstract methods (without a body) and non-abstract methods (with a body).
Abstract classes can also have member variables, constructors, and concrete methods.
Abstract classes are declared using the abstract keyword.


abstract class Animal {
    // Abstract method (does not have a body)
    abstract void sound();

    // Concrete method
    void eat() {
        System.out.println("This animal eats food.");
    }
}
In this example, Animal is an abstract class. It has an abstract method sound() that must be implemented by any subclass,
and a concrete method eat() that can be inherited and used by subclasses.



2. Abstract Methods:
An abstract method is a method that is declared without an implementation (without a method body). It is meant to be overridden by subclasses.
Abstract methods can only be defined in abstract classes.
Subclasses of an abstract class are required to provide implementations for all abstract methods, unless the subclass is also abstract.
Example:


abstract class Animal {
    abstract void sound(); // Abstract method

    void eat() {
        System.out.println("This animal eats food.");
    }
}

class Dog extends Animal {
    // Implementing the abstract method
    void sound() {
        System.out.println("The dog barks.");
    }
}

class Cat extends Animal {
    // Implementing the abstract method
    void sound() {
        System.out.println("The cat meows.");
    }
}

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Animal dog = new Dog();
        dog.sound(); // Output: The dog barks.
        dog.eat();   // Output: This animal eats food.

        Animal cat = new Cat();
        cat.sound(); // Output: The cat meows.
        cat.eat();   // Output: This animal eats food.
    }
}
In this example:

The Animal class is abstract and defines an abstract method sound().
Dog and Cat are subclasses of Animal and provide concrete implementations of the sound() method.
The Main class demonstrates creating instances of Dog and Cat, and calling the sound() and eat() methods.


3. Key Points:

An abstract class can have both abstract methods (without a body) and concrete methods (with a body).
If a class contains at least one abstract method, the class must be declared abstract.
Abstract classes cannot be instantiated directly; they must be subclassed.
A subclass of an abstract class must implement all abstract methods of the superclass unless the subclass is also abstract.


4. When to Use Abstract Classes:


Use abstract classes when you want to define a common base class with some common code (concrete methods) and some 
methods that must be implemented by subclasses.
Abstract classes are useful when creating a template for other classes to follow.




Difference Between Abstract Class and Interface:

1. Abstract Class:
Purpose: Abstract classes are used to provide a common base class for other classes, where some methods might have implementations, 
   and some might be abstract (i.e., they have no implementation in the base class).
Inheritance: A class can inherit from only one abstract class (single inheritance).
Methods: Can have both abstract methods (without implementation) and concrete methods (with implementation).
Fields/Properties: Can have instance variables and fields, and can also include constructors.
Accessibility: Can define access modifiers (like public, protected, private) for methods and properties.
Use Case: Used when you want to share code among several closely related classes.

2. Interface:
Purpose: Interfaces are used to define a contract that other classes must follow. They only contain method signatures (no implementations) and constant fields.
Inheritance: A class can implement multiple interfaces (multiple inheritance).
Methods: All methods in an interface are implicitly abstract (before Java 8) and must be implemented by the classes that implement the interface.
Fields/Properties: Only constants (static final fields) are allowed in interfaces.
Accessibility: All methods in an interface are implicitly public, and you cannot define other access modifiers.
Use Case: Used when you want to specify the behavior a class should implement, without dictating how the behavior is implemented.

Key Differences:
Implementation: Abstract classes can provide some implementation, while interfaces cannot (in traditional versions). However, modern languages (e.g., Java 8 and later) allow default methods in interfaces.
Multiple Inheritance: Interfaces support multiple inheritance, while abstract classes do not.
Fields: Abstract classes can have fields and constructors, whereas interfaces cannot (except for constants).
Flexibility: Interfaces provide more flexibility because a class can implement multiple interfaces, whereas it can extend only one abstract class.




